# Gorram - a simple monitoring system written in Golang

*So you know when the primary buffer panel falls off your gorram ship*

This is my attempt at a creating a monitoring system, similar to Sensu or Nagios. 

Inspired by Telegraf, a single-binary metrics agent, the goal is to have no external dependencies or process forking unless absolutely necessary.

gRPC is used for the client-server communication, protected by TLS and a password. TLS communication can be bypassed using the `-insecure` flag on both the client and server.  

The required TLS certificate can be generated by the server on-demand, using the `-generate-certs` and `-tls-host` flags, like so:  `./server -generate-certs -tls-host=192.168.0.1`. This generates `cert.pem` and `cert.key` in the working directory, and the cert.pem should be copied to the clients. This certificate is not used for any kind of HTTP communication, so being signed by a CA or setup via LetsEncrypt should not be necessary.

The server holds all configuration information in a TOML file on a per-client basis, and that client config is pushed to the client upon connect. The client only needs to be pointed at the server with it's TLS certificate and secret key in hand.  

A very basic heartbeat is implemented, with the server waiting for a ping from the client every 10 seconds, right after connect. If the ping is not received, the timer expires and a ticker fires off that alerts every 10 seconds until the client re-connects.  

## Config file:
```
[clientName]
    Interval = 5

    [clientName.Deluge]
    URL = "http://127.0.0.1:8112/json"
    Password = "deluge"
    MaxTorrents = 5

    [[clientName.Disk]]
    Partition = "/"

    [[clientName.Disk]]
    Partition = "/media/USB"    
    MaxUsage = 10.0

    [[clientName.Ps]]
    FullPath = "/usr/lib/firefox/firefox"

    [clientName.Load]
    MaxLoad = 0.50

    [[clientName.GetUrl]]
    Url = "https://example.tld/health"
    # Quotes must be escaped, per TOML spec:
    ExpectedBody = "{\"alive\": true}"    
```  

## Currently implemented checks:
- Deluge: max number of torrents in an error, checking, or downloading state.  
- Disk Space: max percentage of disk space used on multiple mounts.  
- Load Average: max load average.  
- Process Existence: check that a given process is running, full path to the binary.  
- HTTP GET: checks that a specified URL returns a 200, and optionally, checks that the response body matches a given string.  

## Todo:  
- [ ] Add additional alerting mechanisms (Pushover, email, etc). 
    - Only logs right now.  
- [ ] Add client expiration/deletion.  
    - Right now if a client disappears, the server will start alerting and never stop until the client re-appears. 
    - Might implement some hold-off mechanism so the alerts get longer and longer apart, but still allow a manual deletion.
- [ ] Related to the above, implement some kind of frontend to interact with the server; manually delete clients, reload config, etc.  
    - Thinking of either a web UI or CLI